Docs & Changelog (#23)
palkan/clowne: docs/after_persist.md

---
id: after_persist
title: After Persist
---

The special mechanism for transformation of cloned record. In contradistinction to [`finalize`](finalize.md) executes with a saved record. This type of callbacks provides a default `mapper:` parameter which contains a relation between origin and cloned objects.

> `afrer_perist` helps to restore broken while cloning associations and implement some logic with already persisted clone record. (_Inspired by [issues#19](https://github.com/palkan/clowne/issues/19)_)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`after_persist` helps to restore broken _relationships_ while cloning associations and implement some logic with already persisted clone record. (_Inspired by [issues#19](https://github.com/palkan/clowne/issues/19)_)
```

Examples:

```ruby
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  # create_table :users do |t|
  #   t.string :login
  #   t.integer :bio_id
  # end

  has_many :posts # all user's posts including BIO
  belongs_to :bio, class_name: 'Post'
end

class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  # create_table :posts do |t|
  #   t.integer :user_id
  # end
end

class UserCloner < Clowne::Cloner
  include_association :posts, params: true

  after_persist do |origin, clone, mapper:, **|
    cloned_bio = mapper.clone_of(origin.bio)
    clone.update_attributes(bio_id: cloned_bio.id)
  end
end

class PostCloner < Clowne::Cloner
  after_persist do |_, clone, run_job:, **|
    PostBackgroundJob.perform_async(clone.id) if run_job
  end
end
```

_Notice: `mapper:` supported only with [`active_record`](active_record.md) adapter. See more [`here`](clone_mapper.md)._

> `after_perstist` runs when you call [`Operation#persist`]('operation.md) (or `Operation#persist!`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`after_persist` runs when you call [`Operation#persist`]('operation.md) (or `Operation#persist!`)
```
